Draft of 2021 stats post (#157)
readthedocs/blog: read-the-docs-2021-stats.rst

.. post:: Mar 17, 2022
   :tags: stats, year-in-review

Read the Docs 2021 Stats
========================

2021 continued in the realm of being a tough year.
That said,
Read the Docs had a lot of good things happen this year.

> We did a majority of the owrk on our :doc:`CZI grant </czi-grant-announcement>`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did a majority of the work on our :doc:`CZI grant </czi-grant-announcement>`,
```

grew our team from 5 to 8,

> and continued to grow our `EthicalAds network`_.

Reviewer: We mention EthicalAds growth, but don't mention commercial at all. It's probably worth noting up front, to communicate commercial hosting is as strong a priority as community and ethicalads.

> It's been a year of continued growth,
> and we hope to continue that into 2022.

Reviewer: Redundant "continues"

```suggestion
It's been another year of steady growth,
and we hope to continue that into 2022.
```

As we have for the past 8 years (!!),

> we are proud to share our 2021 stats post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we are proud to share some of our stats from 2021.
```

.. _EthicalAds network: https://www.ethicalads.io/

.. note::

	You can always see our stats for the last `30 days`_.

	Our posts from 2013_, 2014_, 2015_, 2016_, 2017_, 2018_, 2019_, and 2020_ are also available.

.. _Read the Docs: https://readthedocs.org/
.. _30 days: http://www.seethestats.com/site/readthedocs.org
.. _2013: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2013-stats/
.. _2014: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2014-stats/
.. _2015: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2015-stats/
.. _2016: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2016-stats/
.. _2017: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2017-stats/
.. _2018: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2018-stats/
.. _2019: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2019-stats/
.. _2020: https://blog.readthedocs.com/read-the-docs-2020-stats/

> Page Views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Page views
```

----------

Our stats:

> * 700 Million Page Views (from 580 million)
> * 196 Million Unique Visitors (from 156 million)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 700 million page views (from 580 million)
* 196 million unique visitors (from 156 million)
```

.. From Google Analytics

> These numbers are not completely accurate, since we :doc:`implemented Do Not Track support </do-not-track>` our analytics pageview figures understate our actual traffic.

Reviewer: Slight run on

```suggestion
These numbers are not completely accurate. Since we :doc:`implemented Do Not Track support </do-not-track>` our analytics pageview figures understate our actual traffic.
```

We estimate that around 6% of users are not counted here.
We also don't count all the users who block Google Analytics with a browser extension.

> Of note, we host a `major documentation site <http://faq-login-unico.servicos.gov.br/en/latest/>`_ for the Brazilian government,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also of note, we host a `major documentation site <http://faq-login-unico.servicos.gov.br/en/latest/>`_ for the Brazilian government,
```

> which is our largest site by a wide margin,

Reviewer: A little bit more clarity what largest is:

```suggestion
which is our most viewed site by a wide margin,
```

> but they are in both years data.

Reviewer 2: What does it mean here "both years data"? I didn't understand that 😅

Author: Last year and this year, but should be clearer.

> but they are in both years data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but this site is was also included in last year's stats.
```

> Site Stats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Site stats
```

----------

The stats, in total numbers:

* 45,849 new projects (from 40,000)
* 56,760 new users (from 30,000)
* 2,831,885 builds (from 2,480,063)

> We have been battling spam quite heavily again this year,

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to start publishing numbers of projects with a spam score lower than a particular number as well?

Author: I don't think that would be easily comparable across years, so I think this is fine for now.

so these numbers are a bit skewed.
We have worked to improve our spam detection though,

> and are in a much better place with spam this year.

Reviewer: Just to expand on this a bit.

```suggestion
and we have been responding to spam more consistently this last year.
```

.. Project.objects.filter(pub_date__year=2021).count()
.. User.objects.filter(date_joined__year=2021).count()
.. Build.objects.filter(date__year=2021).count()

Community
---------

This year, we had:

* 14 `people`_ who committed code to the main repository (from 14)
* 2126 `commits`_ (from 3636)
* 376 `issues`_ - 88 open, 288 closed (from 532)

> We have been working to move user support issues to email from GitHub,

Reviewer 3: Perhaps we could mention separating code support from user support? Maybe something like:

```suggestion
We have been working to move user support issues to email from GitHub (keeping code issues in GitHub),
```

which likely addresses the reduction in ticket numbers.
We are also working to expand our ecosystem of projects,
so the commits to the main repository are down.
We expect across our theme, extensions, and other projects commits are up this year,
and we're appreciative of all the work people contribute.

.. git rev-list --count --all --after="2019-12-31" --before="2021-01-01"

.. _people: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/graphs/contributors?from=2020-01-01&to=2020-12-31&type=c
.. _commits: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/commits/master
.. _issues: https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/issues?q=is%3Aissue+created%3A2020-01-01..2020-12-31+

Funding
-------

* TODO advertising (from $234,000)

> * TODO Gold users and donations (from $30,000)

Author: @agjohnson Just need you to write in these couple numbers, since I don't see them in our internal finance report split out nicely.

> * TODO advertising (from $234,000)
> * TODO Gold users and donations (from $30,000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* $380,000 advertising (from $234,000)
* $35,000 Gold users and donations (from $30,000)
```

* 8 paid staff (from 5)

> * We have additional revenue from our commercial offering at readthedocs.com, but aren't including that in our community funding overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We have additional revenue from our `Read the Docs for Business`_, but aren't including that in our community funding overview
```

We are excited to continue to grow our advertising business,
and expand it to the larger community.

> We are also seeing continued growth of our paid product at https://readthedocs.com,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also seeing continued growth of our paid product, `Read the Docs for Business`_,
```

which is allowing us to fund further growth of the Read the Docs codebase for all our users.

> .. _EthicalAds: https://www.ethicalads.io/
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _EthicalAds: https://www.ethicalads.io/
.. _Read the Docs for Business: https://readthedocs.com/

```
